README.md, before:

# OpenHarmony Ability

> This project is in progress, and the API is not stable.

`openharmony-ability` is a crate to manage OpenHarmony application's activity with rust, be similar to [android-activity](https://github.com/rust-mobile/android-activity).

## Architecture

The architecture of OpenHarmony is similar to Node.js, where we need to manage the application's lifecycle via callbacks. Hence, there are a few key points to keep in mind.

1. Don't block the main thread as it can lead to application freezing and crashing.
2. openharmony-ability's run_loop doesn't retain the resource and ownership, so if you create a new resource, you should leak it to prevent NULL pointer.

![Architecture](/fixtures/openharmony-ability.png)

We provide some packages or crates to help you develop OpenHarmony application with Rust.

### ArkTS

We need a entry-point to start the application, and we use ArkTS to manage the application's lifecycle.

- [@ohos-rs/ability](./package/README.md)  
  All of ability need to extend `RustAbility` and all lifecycle need to call `super.xx` to make sure the ability can work normally.

### Rust

- [openharmony-ability](./crates/ability/README.md)   
  Basic crate to manage the application's lifecycle.

- [openharmony-ability-derive](./crates/derive/README.md)   
  Macro to generate the ability's implementation.

## Usage

1. use `ohrs` to init project and add `openharmony-ability` dependencies.

   ```bash
   ohrs init hello

   cargo add openharmony-ability
   cargo add openharmony-ability-derive
   ```

2. Add the follow code to `lib.rs`.

   ```rust
   use ohos_hilog_binding::hilog_info;
   use openharmony_ability::App;
   use openharmony_ability_derive::ability;

   #[ability]
   fn openharmony_app(app: App) {
       app.run_loop(|types| {
           hilog_info!(format!("ohos-rs macro: {:?}", types.as_str()).as_str());
       });
   }
   ```

   > Note: `ohos_hilog_binding` is a optional dependency and you can add or remove it.

3. Add `@ohos-rs/ability` to your `OpenHarmony/HarmonyNext` project.

   ```bash
   ohpm install @ohos-rs/ability
   ```

4. change the `EntryAbility.ets` file to the follow code:

   ```ts
   import { RustAbility } from "@ohos-rs/ability";
   import Want from "@ohos.app.ability.Want";
   import { AbilityConstant } from "@kit.AbilityKit";

   export default class EntryAbility extends RustAbility {
     public moduleName: string = "example";

     async onCreate(
       want: Want,
       launchParam: AbilityConstant.LaunchParam
     ): Promise<void> {
       // Note: you should call super.onCreate to make sure the ability can work normally.
       super.onCreate(want, launchParam);
     }
   }
   ```

5. Change the `moduleName` to your rust project name. For example, we need to change it with `hello` in this project.

6. Build your rust project and copy the dynamic library to (Open-)Harmony(Next) project.

7. Now, you can enjoy it.

## Example

See example with [example](./example/src/lib.rs)

Commit message:

refactor: allow render xcomponent and webview at same time (#34)
* refactor: allow render xcomponent and webview at same time

* fix: napi dependencies build

* docs: update docs

README.md, after:

# OpenHarmony Ability

> This project is in progress, and the API is not stable.

`openharmony-ability` is a crate to manage OpenHarmony application's activity with rust, be similar to [android-activity](https://github.com/rust-mobile/android-activity).

## Architecture

The architecture of OpenHarmony is similar to Node.js, where we need to manage the application's lifecycle via callbacks. Hence, there are a few key points to keep in mind.

1. Don't block the main thread as it can lead to application freezing and crashing.
2. openharmony-ability's run_loop doesn't retain the resource and ownership, so if you create a new resource, you should leak it to prevent NULL pointer.

![Architecture](/fixtures/openharmony-ability.png)

We provide some packages or crates to help you develop OpenHarmony application with Rust.

### ArkTS

We need a entry-point to start the application, and we use ArkTS to manage the application's lifecycle.

- [@ohos-rs/ability](./package/README.md)  
  All of ability need to extend `RustAbility` and all lifecycle need to call `super.xx` to make sure the ability can work normally.

### Rust

- [openharmony-ability](./crates/ability/README.md)  
  Basic crate to manage the application's lifecycle.

- [openharmony-ability-derive](./crates/derive/README.md)  
  Macro to generate the ability's implementation.

## Usage

1. use `ohrs` to init project and add `openharmony-ability` dependencies.

   ```bash
   ohrs init hello

   cargo add openharmony-ability
   cargo add openharmony-ability-derive
   ```

   If you have already a rust project, you can add the dependencies into your project. And you need to add the following dependencies into your project which is used to generate some codes to bridge ArkTS.

   ```bash
   cargo add napi-ohos
   cargo add napi-derive-ohos
   cargo add napi-build-ohos
   ```

2. Add the follow code to `lib.rs`.

   ```rust
   use ohos_hilog_binding::hilog_info;
   use openharmony_ability::App;
   use openharmony_ability_derive::ability;

   #[ability]
   fn openharmony_app(app: App) {
       app.run_loop(|types| {
           hilog_info!(format!("ohos-rs macro: {:?}", types.as_str()).as_str());
       });
   }
   ```

   > Note: `ohos_hilog_binding` is a optional dependency and you can add or remove it.

3. Add `@ohos-rs/ability` to your `OpenHarmony/HarmonyNext` project.

   ```bash
   ohpm install @ohos-rs/ability
   ```

4. change the `EntryAbility.ets` file to the follow code:

   ```ts
   import { RustAbility } from "@ohos-rs/ability";
   import Want from "@ohos.app.ability.Want";
   import { AbilityConstant } from "@kit.AbilityKit";

   export default class EntryAbility extends RustAbility {
     public moduleName: string = "example";

     async onCreate(
       want: Want,
       launchParam: AbilityConstant.LaunchParam
     ): Promise<void> {
       // Note: you should call super.onCreate to make sure the ability can work normally.
       super.onCreate(want, launchParam);
     }
   }
   ```

5. Change the `moduleName` to your rust project name. For example, we need to change it with `hello` in this project.

6. Build your rust project and copy the dynamic library to (Open-)Harmony(Next) project.

7. Now, you can enjoy it.

## Example

See example with [example](./example/src/lib.rs)


## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)
